Editor UX audit — prioritized findings
I found a mix of confirmed functional problems and significant usability friction. The most important theme is trust: users need to feel that their work is safe, that actions behave consistently, and that the editor is giving them clear feedback.

Critical / should fix first
1. Pages are not persisted with the project
The editor supports:

Add page
Duplicate page
Delete page
Previous/next page
Page ordering
But the saved project only stores canvasJson. The pages array, current page, page names, and page positions are component signals and are not included in the saved project model.

User impact: A user can create multiple pages, save, leave the editor, and return to a project that no longer has the same page structure. This is one of the most damaging problems because it breaks confidence in the editor.

Recommended fix:

Store pages in the project data.
Store the active page index.
Store page-specific objects separately or attach objects to page IDs.
Restore all page state during initialization.
Make sure undo/redo also includes page operations.
2. Canvas resizing changes the canvas but does not update the project dimensions
applyCanvasPreset() and applyCustomSize() call canvas.setDimensions(...), but they do not update the project’s width and height.

User impact: The canvas can visually become a new size while the project metadata remains at the old size. This can cause incorrect downstream behavior in reopening, exporting, print workflows, or other features that use project dimensions.

Recommended fix:

Update:

project.width
project.height

whenever the canvas size changes, and include those changes in undo/redo.

3. “Save” is local-only, while the UI implies durable saving
EditorService.saveProject() writes to localStorage. There is an editor_projects mock API resource, but the editor does not appear to persist projects through the backend.

User impact:

Work is tied to one browser/device.
Clearing browser storage loses projects.
A user may expect to find the same work after logging in elsewhere.
The “Saved” label suggests stronger persistence than actually exists.
Recommended fix:

Either:

Implement real project persistence through the API, or
Clearly label this as local draft storage and avoid implying account-level saving.
For a production editor, the first option is the correct direction.

4. Exit navigation can happen before save completion
saveAndClose() calls save() and immediately navigates to /marketplace.

this.save();
this.router.navigate(['/marketplace']);

The current save implementation is synchronous because it uses local storage, but once backend persistence is added this will become a real data-loss risk. Even now, the UI does not show a clear “saved before leaving” confirmation.

Recommended fix:

Make saveAndClose() wait for the save observable to complete, then navigate. If saving fails, keep the user in the editor and show a recovery action.

High-impact usability problems
5. The welcome screen looks like a broken thumbnail gallery
The format cards show generic image, play, and printer icons instead of meaningful previews. The layout is also very dense and partially clipped in the screenshot.

User impact:

New users cannot quickly understand the difference between presets.
The cards look unfinished or unloaded.
The most important first interaction feels low-confidence.
Recommended fix:

Use clear visual previews for each format.
Show the format name and dimensions with stronger hierarchy.
Add a prominent “Blank canvas” option.
Add “Recommended” or “Popular” labels.
Make the layout scroll cleanly on shorter screens.
Avoid showing a large modal with too many choices at once.
6. The editor has too many competing entry points
The same actions appear in multiple places:

Top toolbar
Left panel
Empty-canvas guide
Welcome screen
Command palette
Context menu
Floating selection toolbar
Mobile bottom navigation
This gives the editor broad capability, but it also creates uncertainty about where the “correct” action lives.

User impact: Beginners may not know whether to use the toolbar, panel, or canvas guide. Experienced users may feel the interface is noisy.

Recommended fix:

Define a clear hierarchy:

Primary creation actions: left panel
Primary editing actions: right properties panel
Global actions: top bar
Contextual actions: floating toolbar
Advanced actions: command palette/context menu
Then remove or reduce duplicate actions where possible.

7. “Image” and “Upload” are confusingly separate
The toolbar includes both:

Image
Upload
The code behaves differently:

Image immediately opens a file picker.
Upload opens an upload dialog, which then opens a file picker.
User impact: Users cannot predict which action to use. The two buttons appear to represent different capabilities but currently overlap heavily.

Recommended fix:

Use one clear “Add media” action with a menu:

Upload from device
Browse project images
Browse stock photos
Paste image
If keeping both buttons, rename them clearly, such as:

“Stock image”
“Upload”
8. Upload drag-and-drop is incomplete
The upload dialog says:

Drag & drop or click to browse

But the actual drag/drop handling is attached to the main canvas area, not clearly to the upload card. Dropping onto the upload card may not behave as users expect.

There is also inconsistent feedback:

Invalid files dropped onto the canvas are silently ignored.
Oversized dropped files are silently ignored.
File picker errors show a toast.
Recommended fix:

Attach drag/drop handlers directly to the upload card.
Add a visible drag-over state.
Show an error for unsupported or oversized dropped files.
Show upload progress for large files.
Explain whether an image will be inserted at center or at the drop location.
9. There are likely cross-origin image failure cases
Images are loaded with crossOrigin: 'anonymous', then retried without it if loading fails.

That fallback can allow the image to appear, but it can also taint the canvas. A tainted Fabric canvas can then fail during:

PNG export
JPG export
PDF export
Selection export
Background processing
User impact: The image may appear to work, then exporting fails later.

Recommended fix:

Reject images that cannot be loaded safely for export.
Proxy external images through a CORS-safe endpoint.
Validate canvas exportability immediately after insertion.
Show an actionable message: “This image source cannot be exported. Upload the file instead.”
10. Export options are not fully consistent
The export dialog presents:

PNG
PDF
SVG
JPG
But behavior is inconsistent:

PNG/JPG buttons call exportSelection(), which exports only the selection when something is selected.
PDF/SVG buttons call exportDesign(), which exports the full design.
The UI does not clearly tell the user whether they are exporting the selection or the whole page.
exportTransparent and exportQuality exist in code, but there does not appear to be a visible export control for them.
User impact: A user may think they exported the full design and receive only one selected object.

Recommended fix:

Add an explicit scope choice:

Entire design
Current selection
Then use the same scope for every format. Also expose:

Transparent background
JPG quality
Page selection for multi-page projects
11. Export filenames do not use the project name
Downloads use names such as:

design-<timestamp>.png
selection-<timestamp>.png

User impact: Downloaded files are difficult to identify and organize.

Recommended fix:

Use:

<Project Name>-page-1.png
<Project Name>-selection.png

with safe filename normalization.

12. Resize behavior can destroy layout intent
The resize dialog explicitly says:

Objects are not scaled when resizing.

That is technically clear, but it creates a poor workflow for common format changes such as:

Instagram post → Instagram story
Social post → presentation slide
Square → portrait
User impact: Users resize the page and discover that objects are no longer positioned or sized appropriately.

Recommended fix:

Offer a choice:

Resize canvas only
Scale and reposition content
Resize with smart layout
At minimum, show a before/after preview.

Editing behavior risks
13. Text editing is not fully protected from global keyboard shortcuts
The global window:keydown handler ignores normal inputs and contenteditable elements, but Fabric’s text editing surface is a canvas object rather than a normal DOM input.

That means shortcuts such as:

T
R
P
Delete
Arrow keys
Ctrl+A
can potentially interfere with text editing inside the canvas.

User impact: While typing, a user may accidentally trigger a tool, delete a text object, select all objects, or move the text.

Recommended fix:

Check whether Fabric is currently in text editing mode before running editor shortcuts. Only allow text-editing shortcuts that are safe, such as copy/paste and standard text navigation.

14. Undo/redo coverage is incomplete
Many object changes push undo state, but not all editor state is included:

Page creation/deletion is not included in the canvas JSON.
Page ordering is not included.
Grid visibility is not included.
Guides/rulers/snap settings are not included.
Canvas dimensions are not included.
Some background and layout state is only held in component signals.
User impact: Undo may not restore the complete previous editor state. Users can undo an object change but not undo a related page or document-level change.

Recommended fix:

Use a single document snapshot containing:

Canvas objects
Canvas size
Pages
Background
Guides/grids
Active page
Relevant editor settings
Then use that snapshot consistently for save, undo, redo, and restore.

15. Shape property editing replaces objects
For circles, polygons, and stars, changing properties such as arc, sides, or points creates a new Fabric object and removes the old one.

User impact:

Selection can jump.
Object coordinates and scaling can subtly change.
Related metadata can be lost.
Repeated slider changes can create many undo entries and feel unstable.
Recommended fix:

Preserve complete transform state: position, scale, origin, angle, opacity, stroke, shadow, locks.
Debounce slider-based undo snapshots so dragging a slider is one undo step.
Keep the same object identity where possible.
16. Drawing mode has weak error recovery
The draw tool supports brush/eraser controls, but the eraser is implemented as white drawing:

'rgba(255,255,255,1)'

That does not erase underlying content; it paints over it with white.

User impact: On a non-white background or over other objects, the “eraser” produces a white mark rather than removing pixels or strokes.

Recommended fix:

Use a real eraser mode or make the behavior explicit as “white brush.” For true erasing, use Fabric’s eraser support or remove/split path objects.

17. The empty canvas guide and welcome modal duplicate the first-time experience
There are two onboarding flows:

Welcome modal
Empty canvas guide
Four-step tour after starting
User impact: New users may be presented with multiple layers of instruction before they can work. This can feel like friction rather than help.

Recommended fix:

Use one first-run flow:

Choose format.
Land on the editor.
Show three lightweight contextual hints.
Let users dismiss or reopen help later.
Avoid blocking the canvas with multiple onboarding systems.

18. The onboarding tour is stored only per browser
The tour state uses:

localStorage.setItem('amx_editor_tour_v1', '1')

User impact: The tour does not follow the user across devices or accounts, and shared devices can produce confusing behavior.

Recommended fix:

Store onboarding completion at the account/workspace level, with a local fallback for guests.

Layout and responsive issues
19. The desktop toolbar is overloaded
The top toolbar includes:

Back
Project name
Search commands
Six tools
Select all
Templates
AI
Undo/redo
Resize
Shortcuts
Present
Export
Save
At smaller desktop widths, this becomes a compression problem. Some controls collapse or disappear before the user understands where they went.

Recommended fix:

Group actions:

Create
Edit
View
Share/export
Keep only the most important controls visible and put secondary actions in an overflow menu.

20. Mobile hides important functionality rather than adapting it
At mobile widths, several desktop controls are hidden:

Resize
Shortcuts
Presentation
Some toolbar controls
Status bar
Some of these actions may still be accessible indirectly, but the discoverability is poor.

Recommended fix:

Add a mobile “More” menu containing:

Resize
Export
Undo/redo
Guides
Keyboard/help
Project settings
Also ensure the mobile sheet has proper focus management and scroll locking.

21. There is no clear focus management for modals and sheets
The editor opens several overlays:

Welcome
Upload
Templates
Resize
Shortcuts
Export
AI result
Command palette
Mobile drawers
They have close buttons and click-outside behavior, but there is no clear focus trap or restoration of focus after closing.

User impact: Keyboard and assistive-technology users can lose their place. Pressing Tab can move behind the modal.

Recommended fix:

Use a reusable dialog pattern with:

role="dialog"
aria-labelledby
Focus moved into the dialog
Focus trapped while open
Escape handling
Focus returned to the triggering button
Confirmed quality issues from the running app
22. The preview logs show a network failure
The browser console reported:

[Network] Cannot reach server

The Angular and mock API workflows are running, so this likely comes from a request path or service call that is not resolving correctly in the preview environment.

Recommended fix:

Identify which request fails in the browser Network panel or API service, then:

Use relative same-origin paths where appropriate.
Confirm the proxy route.
Add user-visible loading/error states instead of silently leaving empty panels.
23. Missing assets look like empty or broken UI rather than intentional placeholders
The welcome screen screenshot shows generic icons in place of meaningful format thumbnails. The marketplace/editor experience also appears to depend on external image resources.

Recommended fix:

Add local fallback thumbnails.
Use skeletons only while loading.
Use a deliberate “image unavailable” state after failure.
Never leave a generic icon that looks like an unrendered image.
Recommended fix order
Phase 1 — restore trust
Persist pages and document dimensions.
Make save/exit wait for persistence.
Fix export scope consistency.
Fix cross-origin image/export failures.
Protect Fabric text editing from global shortcuts.
Phase 2 — improve first-use clarity
Redesign the welcome format picker.
Combine or clarify Image vs Upload.
Consolidate onboarding into one flow.
Add stronger empty/loading/error states.
Simplify the desktop toolbar.
Phase 3 — improve professional workflows
Add scale/reposition behavior when resizing.
Make undo/redo document-level.
Fix the eraser behavior.
Add multi-page export controls.
Improve mobile “More” actions and modal focus management.
Overall assessment
The editor has a strong feature base—layers, text controls, shapes, snapping, grids, templates, image tools, export, pages, and AI utilities—but it currently behaves more like a broad prototype than a dependable professional editor.

The highest-value improvement is not adding more tools. It is making the editor consistently answer these questions:

Where is my work saved?
What exactly am I exporting?
What will happen if I resize?
Which page am I editing?
Is this action reversible?
Where do I go to add content?
Did my image actually load safely?
Is this control changing the document or just the current view?
Once those are clear and reliable, the existing feature set will feel much more powerful.